Tutorial 14 : Stochastic Gradient Descent vs Batch Gradient Descent vs Mini Batch Gradient Descent |DL Tutorial 14
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Here we can see what is batch gradient descent, stochastic gradient descent and mini batch gradient descent
Here we can also see how we can implement those in plain python code

Batch Gradient Descent
----------------------
Here the this will go through all samples (one complete epoch) and then will calculate the weight and bias.
Then it will go through the next complete round and then adjust the weight.
Going through complete samples and then adjusting weight on each epoch is called batch gradient descent

Stochastic Gradient Descent
--------------------------
Here this will pick one random samples and then it will calculate weight and bias
Then the next sample and then adjust the weight.
Going through samples randomly one by one and adjusting weight and bias for each samples is called Stochastic gradient descent.

Mini Batch Gradient Descent
---------------------------
In this case this will pick few set of random samples and then it will calculate the weight and bias.
Then it pick the next set of samples and adjust the weight and bias
This is mini batch gradient descent


Lets say we have house price prediction which has area and bedroom as feature and price is the target
Here each samples and passed to the models one by one and one in the formula 
price = 1 * area + 1 * bedrooms * bias
Based on the formula this will get the predicted value.
We will have the actual value on the training target values.
Then this will calculate the square error of each samples
error1 = (price - ^price)^2
At the end of all samples, it will be called the end of epoc.
Then it will calculate the total cost
total error = error1 + error2 + error3 + ..... + error6
Mean square error = total_error / 6

Then calculate w1, w2 and bias using formula
w1 = w1 - learning rate * a(mse) / aw1
w1 = 1 - (-50) = 51

w2 = w2 - learning rate * a(mse) / aw2
w2 = 1 - (-8) = -9

b = b - learning rate * a(mse) / bw2
b = 1 - (-20000) = 20001

After calculating these, this again goe through the samples with updated w1, w3 and bias
I will keep on running the epoc multiple times until error reate become too less and nearly same
This is batch gradient descent

Lets say we have 10 milion records,
This will take time.
Lets say this has 200 features/columnns. This required lot of comparision as this have to go through all samples etc
In this case, we can pick one sample records then appliend on the same formula and this will find the c and w1
Adjusting the weight on each samples.
Adjusting the weight and samples on each samples is called Stochastic Gradient Descent


What is the key different between batch gradient descent and stochastic gradient descent.
Batch gradient descent:
1. This uses all training samples in forward pass and then it adjust the weights
2. This is good for all small training set
3. Here we can see the weight adjusted gradually and smothly comes down in graph

Stochastic gradient descent:
1. This randomly pick each samples in forward pass and then it adjust the weights
2. This is good when it has big training set and if we have less computation power
3. Here we can see the weight adjusted wont be gradually. Littly zigzag (not smoth) and then slowly comes down in graph

How about mini batch gradient descent:
This is like stochastic gradient descent. But instead of picking each samples, this take a batch or set of few random samples and then it will adjust the weights.
For example, if we have 20 training samples. I pick 5 random samples first and adjust the weights. Then again pick next 5 randome samples and adjust the weights etc.
This is mini batch batch gradient descent


Batch gradient descent:
Use all training samples in forward pass and then it adjust the weights

Stochastic gradient descent:
Use one (randomly picked sample) sample in forward pass and then it adjust the weights

Mini batch gradient descent:
Use batch of samples (randomly picked samples) in forward pass and then it adjust the weights

Please refer the jupyter notebooks of the tutorial and exercise.  There we have implemented these in plain python code

----------------------
